.TH XFR 1 "July 2026" "xfr 0.9.21" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xfr \- modern network bandwidth testing with TUI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfr
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIHOST\fR
.br
.B xfr serve
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B xfr diff
\fIBASELINE\fR \fICURRENT\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B xfr discover
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfr
is a fast, modern network bandwidth testing tool with a terminal user interface.
It is designed as a replacement for iperf with additional features like live TUI,
multi-client server support, QUIC transport, and result comparison.
.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p ", " \-\-port " PORT"
Server port (default: 5201). Environment: XFR_PORT
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-time " DURATION"
Test duration (default: 10s). Supports units: s, m, h. Environment: XFR_DURATION
.TP
.B \-u ", " \-\-udp
Use UDP instead of TCP
.TP
.B \-Q ", " \-\-quic
Use QUIC transport (encrypted, multiplexed streams over UDP)
.TP
.BI \-b ", " \-\-bitrate " RATE"
Target bitrate for UDP mode (e.g., 1G, 100M, 10K)
.TP
.BI \-P ", " \-\-parallel " N"
Number of parallel streams (default: 1)
.TP
.B \-R ", " \-\-reverse
Reverse direction (server sends to client, i.e., download test)
.TP
.B \-\-bidir
Bidirectional test (both upload and download)
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results as JSON
.TP
.B \-\-json\-stream
JSON streaming output (one JSON object per line per interval)
.TP
.B \-\-csv
CSV output format
.TP
.B \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode \- suppress interval output, show only summary
.TP
.BI \-o ", " \-\-output " FILE"
Save results to file
.TP
.B \-\-no\-tui
Disable terminal UI, use plain text output
.TP
.B \-\-no\-update\-check
Disable the background check for a newer release. Also honored via the
DO_NOT_TRACK or XFR_NO_UPDATE_CHECK environment variables.
.TP
.BI \-\-theme " THEME"
Color theme: default, kawaii, cyber, dracula, monochrome, matrix, nord, gruvbox, catppuccin, tokyo_night, solarized
.TP
.BI \-i ", " \-\-interval " SECS"
Report interval in seconds (default: 1.0)
.TP
.BI \-\-omit " N"
Omit first N seconds from interval output (TCP ramp-up)
.TP
.B \-\-tcp\-nodelay
Disable Nagle algorithm (TCP_NODELAY)
.TP
.BI \-\-window " SIZE"
TCP window size (e.g., 512K, 1M, 4M)
.TP
.BI \-\-congestion " ALGO"
TCP congestion control algorithm (e.g., cubic, bbr, reno). Applied on both client and server sockets via setsockopt(TCP_CONGESTION). Requires kernel support for the selected algorithm.
.TP
.BI \-\-timestamp\-format " FORMAT"
Timestamp format: relative (default), iso8601, unix
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-file " PATH"
Log file path (e.g., ~/.config/xfr/xfr.log)
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Log level: error, warn, info, debug, trace
.TP
.BI \-\-psk " KEY"
Pre-shared key for server authentication. Environment: XFR_PSK. Values supplied via \fB\-\-psk\fR or \fBXFR_PSK\fR may be visible through process metadata; prefer \fB\-\-psk\-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-psk\-file " FILE"
Read PSK from file
.TP
.B \-4 ", " \-\-ipv4
Force IPv4 only
.TP
.B \-6 ", " \-\-ipv6
Force IPv6 only
.TP
.BI \-\-bind " ADDR"
Local address to bind to (e.g., 192.168.1.100 or ::1)
.TP
.BI \-\-cport " PORT"
Client source port for firewall traversal (UDP/QUIC/TCP data streams)
.TP
.BI \-\-dscp " VALUE"
Set DSCP/TOS marking on sockets for QoS policy testing. Accepts numeric values (0\-255) or standard DSCP names: EF, AF11\-AF43, CS0\-CS7, VA. Applied to both client-side and server-side TCP/UDP sockets (the value is propagated in the TestStart message) so download and bidirectional tests mark traffic in both directions. QUIC manages its own socket and ignores this flag; non-Unix platforms warn before the test starts.
.TP
.B \-\-mptcp
Use MPTCP (Multi\-Path TCP, Linux 5.6+)
.TP
.B \-\-random
Use random payload data (default for TCP/UDP client\-sent traffic)
.TP
.B \-\-zeros
Use zero\-filled payload data instead of random bytes
.TP
.B \-Z ", " \-\-zerocopy
Zero\-copy TCP sends via sendfile(2), like iperf3 \-Z (Linux only; lowers sender CPU overhead). On by default for TCP since v0.9.17; passing \-Z explicitly warns when zero\-copy cannot take effect instead of falling back silently. Forwarded to servers that support it for \-R/\-\-bidir
.TP
.B \-\-no\-zerocopy
Disable zero\-copy TCP sends (use regular buffered writes)
.TP
.B \-\-probe\-mtu
Probe the path MTU instead of running a throughput test: walks UDP payload sizes with the don't\-fragment flag set and reports the largest size surviving in each direction. Implies UDP; requires a server with mtu_probe_v1 support (xfr >= 0.9.17)
.TP
.BI \-\-connect\-timeout " DURATION"
Fail if the control connection (TCP connect or QUIC handshake) takes longer than this (e.g. 5s). Without it, a dead or filtered server is bounded only by OS defaults
.TP
.BI \-\-completions " SHELL"
Generate shell completions: bash, zsh, fish, powershell, elvish
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p ", " \-\-port " PORT"
Listen port (default: 5201). Environment: XFR_PORT
.TP
.B \-\-one\-off
Exit after a single test
.TP
.B \-\-tui
Enable TUI dashboard showing active tests
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-duration " DURATION"
Maximum test duration (server-side limit)
.TP
.BI \-\-push\-gateway " URL"
Prometheus push gateway URL (e.g., http://pushgateway:9091)
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-file " PATH"
Log file path
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Log level: error, warn, info, debug, trace
.TP
.BI \-\-psk " KEY"
Pre-shared key for authentication. Environment: XFR_PSK. Values supplied via \fB\-\-psk\fR or \fBXFR_PSK\fR may be visible through process metadata; prefer \fB\-\-psk\-file\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-psk\-file " FILE"
Read PSK from file
.TP
.BI \-\-preset " NAME"
Use a named server preset from the config file. Preset \fBallowed_clients\fR entries, if present, are enforced as an additional allowlist together with the normal ACL. Preset \fBmax_duration_secs\fR, if present, is used only when \fB\-\-max-duration\fR is not also supplied on the command line. The \fBbandwidth_limit\fR field is reserved for future use and is not enforced today.
.TP
.BI \-\-rate\-limit " N"
Max concurrent tests per IP
.TP
.BI \-\-rate\-limit\-window " DURATION"
Rate limit time window (default: 60s)
.TP
.BI \-\-allow " IP/SUBNET"
Allow IP or subnet (can be repeated)
.TP
.BI \-\-deny " IP/SUBNET"
Deny IP or subnet (can be repeated)
.TP
.BI \-\-acl\-file " FILE"
Load ACL rules from file
.TP
.TP
.BI \-B ", " \-\-bind " IP"
Bind to specific address (e.g., 192.168.1.1, ::1). Rejects unspecified addresses; use \fB\-4\fR/\fB\-6\fR instead to control address family. Validates against \fB\-4\fR/\fB\-6\fR flags.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-mdns
Disable mDNS service registration. By default the server registers itself via mDNS for automatic discovery by \fBxfr discover\fR. Use this flag when another service already uses mDNS or when running in environments where multicast is unwanted.
.TP
.B \-4 ", " \-\-ipv4
Force IPv4 only
.TP
.B \-6 ", " \-\-ipv6
Force IPv6 only
.SH DIFF OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-threshold " PERCENT"
Regression threshold percentage (default: 5)
.SH DISCOVER OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " DURATION"
Discovery timeout (default: 5s)
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B xfr
reads configuration from \fI~/.config/xfr/config.toml\fR (Linux/macOS) or \fI%APPDATA%\\xfr\\config.toml\fR (Windows) if present.
CLI arguments override config file values. Environment variables override config file.
.PP
Example config:
.RS
.nf
[client]
duration_secs = 30
parallel_streams = 4
theme = "dracula"

[server]
port = 5201
psk = "secret"
rate_limit = 5
no_mdns = false
allow = ["192.168.0.0/16"]
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XFR_PORT
Server/client port
.TP
.B XFR_DURATION
Test duration
.TP
.B XFR_PSK
Pre-shared key
.TP
.B XFR_PUSH_GATEWAY
Prometheus push gateway URL
.TP
.B XFR_LOG_FILE
Log file path
.TP
.B XFR_LOG_LEVEL
Log level
.TP
.B XFR_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT
Timestamp format
.TP
.B DO_NOT_TRACK
Set to a non-empty, non-zero value to disable the update check (cross-tool standard)
.TP
.B XFR_NO_UPDATE_CHECK
Set to a non-empty, non-zero value to disable the update check
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1
Run a 10-second TCP upload test
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-t 30s \-P 4
30-second test with 4 parallel streams
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-R
Download test (server sends to client)
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-u \-b 1G
UDP test at 1 Gbps
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-\-quic
QUIC encrypted test
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-\-json \-\-no\-tui
JSON output for scripting
.TP
.B xfr 192.168.1.1 \-\-zeros
Use zero\-filled payloads for compression/dedup testing
.TP
.B xfr serve
Start server on default port 5201
.TP
.B xfr serve \-\-tui
Start server with live dashboard
.TP
.B xfr serve \-\-psk secret \-\-rate\-limit 2
Authenticated server with rate limiting
.TP
.B xfr serve \-\-allow 192.168.0.0/16 \-\-deny 0.0.0.0/0
Server with IP access control
.TP
.B xfr diff baseline.json current.json \-\-threshold 5
Compare results, fail if throughput drops more than 5%
.TP
.B xfr discover
Find xfr servers on the local network via mDNS
.SH PROTOCOL
.PP
.B xfr
servers and clients using protocol v1.1 exchange capability strings during the
.B Hello
handshake (protocol v1.1). A feature activates only when both peers advertise its capability; older peers fall back to prior behavior, so adding a capability is wire-additive.
.TP
.B tcp
Peer supports TCP tests.
.TP
.B udp
Peer supports UDP tests.
.TP
.B quic
Peer supports QUIC tests.
.TP
.B multistream
Peer supports multiple parallel streams.
.TP
.B single_port_tcp
All TCP data streams multiplex over the single control port. Servers fall back to per-stream ephemeral ports for clients that don't advertise this.
.TP
.B pause_resume
The
.B p
key in the TUI (or a control message in scripted mode) pauses and resumes the test mid-run.
.TP
.B udp_feedback_v1
Server emits 36-byte cumulative
.I (packets_received, packets_lost)
feedback packets back to the client at 2 Hz on the same UDP data socket, sidestepping the TCP control channel for live UDP-loss visibility under upload-mode saturation (issue #70). Available v0.9.14+. Capability negotiation gates emission so older clients never see a packet they don't understand.
.TP
.B zerocopy_v1
Server honors a zero-copy request for its own sends in \-R/\-\-bidir TCP tests (sendfile-based, issue #33). Available v0.9.16+.
.TP
.B mtu_probe_v1
Server answers path-MTU probe packets (ack + same-size echo) for \-\-probe\-mtu (issue #64). Hard requirement: the client refuses to probe servers without it. Available v0.9.17+.
.TP
.B single_port_udp_v1
All UDP stream data flows to the server's main port via per-stream connected sockets negotiated with a token-bearing hello, instead of per-stream ephemeral server ports (issue #63). Advertised only when a startup self-test proves the kernel's connected-socket routing; servers fall back to ephemeral ports for older clients or unsupported platforms. Available v0.9.18+.

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT (Ctrl+C)
Gracefully cancels the running test: signals the server over the control channel, waits briefly for the final result, then displays the accumulated test summary. Works in both plain text and TUI modes. A second Ctrl+C during the cancel window force-exits immediately.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error or regression detected (with diff command)
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments
.TP
.B 3
Server rejected test (auth, rate limit, ACL)
.TP
.B 130
Test was interrupted by SIGINT before server could report a full result (partial summary printed if any data was collected)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/xfr/config.toml
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/xfr/prefs.toml
User preferences (theme)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iperf3 (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/lance0/xfr/issues
.SH AUTHOR
lance0
